When online video had a different format,
the search on YouTube was based on ...
honesty, actually.
After a video was uploaded
you told YouTube what's in the video
and YouTube looks at the title, description and tags
and takes over from that point.
People immediately tried to cheat.
It became an arms race.
Entering too many search terms, spamming tags, the 'reply girls' from 2012.
If there was a way to discover YouTube's priority algorithm
then spammers took advantage of it.
Creators desperately changed the videos
to what they thought YouTube wanted,
on the basis of rumors, speculation and too much extrapolation
from too little data.
YouTube has recently stopped.
The parent company - Google - learned this when
online video was still in a RealPlayer window
and connecting to the internet sounded like torturing a cat.
If Google ever gave a hint how to get higher in the search results
then there were the same spammers who took advantage of this.
So the advice was always:
Make good things
We are looking for it.
But on YouTube it is not the people who manage the algorithm
who do not want to tell you how it works.
They can not.
There is proof: a document written by YouTube developers
in which they explain that they use Google's research into machine learning, to recommend videos.
That is the same kind of software that generates weird 'deep dream' images,
that their text-to-speech sound so realistic
and that the best Go player beat in his own game.
I know this is a bit too easy,
but machine-learning in the way that Google does
is actually a black box.
You give the neural network some input
like the board game in Go.
And it gives you output: a movement that may work.
This output is being tested,
and the result goes back into the box,
and this process you repeat millions of times,
and then the output is pretty good.
But no one can look in the black box to see how it works:
It is designed by a computer, for a computer.
Neural networks are great for playing games
with a clear score and points system.
You win, or you lose.
But training that black box on YouTube is messy.
Not only is the behavior of people unpredictable and complex:
finding out what counts as 'winning' is more difficult.
If YouTube says to the algorithm "Show videos that people like",
then each channel is politically completed
where people click 'thumbs down' if they do not agree.
And everyone with a small but vocal group is silenced
who disagree with it.
If YouTube says to the algorithm: "Ok, show videos that people share",
then videos about private matters like medical problems and sex education are hidden
and people with a small group of loyal but silent fans
disappear in their own small world.
And of course the YouTube developers want to
that the algorithm recommends their own videos ...
even if the rest of the world does not actually want to see it.
So YouTube started, according to the document,
with the assignment reasonable assignment:
"increase the viewing time"
But that has a few problems.
A computer can not test quality or truth.
At least, not yet.
The system does not understand context.
It can not determine the difference between current and reliable information
and loose, paranoid conspiracy theories.
I admit, most people can not.
That's why these videos get so much attention,
It can not determine the difference
between videos that are suitable for children
made with education in mind
and scary unofficial efforts.
It only knows what children click on and what they view.
So yes, the algorithm knows to increase viewing time in the short term ...
But a lot of recommended videos are debatable
and possibly even harmful.
And these are things that make advertisers very nervous.
Remember, the algorithm is a black box.
Nobody knows what it does.
The only thing YouTube can do is change the feedback
Telling what is good and bad.
If YouTube has to review every video that is uploaded
as 'safe' or 'unsafe'
then they need more than 100,000 employees who are constantly working
This again exposes them to legal problems:
in most countries where YouTube has an office
and you have an algorithm filtered
and adjusts manually with complaints
Then it's okay.
But if you allow people to approve everything
are you a publisher,
and you can have to deal with expensive lawsuits.
The ideal algorithm, the ideal black box,
seen from YouTube's perspective
would be one with the goal: "increase advertising revenue",
given the long term
and social issues
and potential advertising boycotts and financial strategies
and public opinion, which is suitable for children
and ..... and about the truth.
At this point you have something that
the work of YouTube's senior management team can do.
And AI is not that good yet.
At least, not yet.
Translation by: Ronald Bosveld